Recommender Systems are software tools and techniques providing suggestions for
items to be of use to a user. The suggestions provided are aimed at supporting their
users in various decision-making processes, such as what items to buy, what music
Development of recommender systems is a multi-disciplinary effort which involves
experts from various fields such as Artificial intelligence, Human Computer
Interaction, Information Technology, Data Mining, Statistics, Adaptive User Interfaces,
Decision Support Systems, Marketing, or Consumer Behavior. Recommender
Systems Handbook: A Complete Guide for Research Scientists and Practitioners
aims to impose a degree of order upon this diversity by presenting a coherent and
unified repository of recommender systems major concepts, theories, methodologies,
trends, challenges and applications. This is the first comprehensive book which
is dedicated entirely to the field of recommender systems and covers several aspects
of the major techniques. Its informative, factual pages will provide researchers, stuclassical
methods, as well as extensions and novel approaches that were recently introduced.
The book consists of five parts: techniques, applications and evaluation of
recommender systems, interacting with recommender systems, recommender systems
and communities, and advanced algorithms. The first part presents the most
popular and fundamental techniques used nowadays for building recommender systems,
such as collaborative filtering, content-based filtering, data mining methods
and context-aware methods. The second part starts by surveying techniques and approaches
that have been used to evaluate the quality of the recommendations. Then
deals with the practical aspects of designing recommender systems, it describes design
and implementation consideration, setting guidelines for the selection of the
vii
to listen, or what news to read. Recommender systems have proven to be valuable
means for online users to cope with the information overload and have
Correspondingly, various techniques for recommendation generation have been
proposed and during the last decade, many of them have also been successfully
deployed in commercial environments.
become one of the most powerful and popular tools in electronic commerce.
dents and practitioners in industry with a comprehensive, yet concise and convenient
reference source to recommender systems. The book describes in detail the
viii Preface
more suitable algorithms. The section continues considering aspects that may affect
the design and finally, it discusses methods, challenges and measures to be applied
for the evaluation of the developed systems. The third part includes papers dealing
with a number of issues related to the presentation, browsing, explanation and visualization
of the recommendations, and techniques that make the recommendation
process more structured and conversational.
The fourth part is fully dedicated to a rather new topic, which is however rooted in
the core idea of a collaborative recommender, i.e., exploiting user generated content
Finally the last section collects a few papers on some advanced topics, such as
the exploitation of active learning principles to guide the acquisition of new knowledge,
techniques suitable for making a recommender system robust against attacks
of malicious users, and recommender systems that aggregate multiple types of user
feedbacks and preferences to build more reliable recommendations.
We would like to thank all authors for their valuable contributions. We would
like to express gratitude for all reviewers that generously gave comments on drafts or
counsel otherwise. We would like to express our special thanks to Susan LagerstromFife
and staff members of Springer for their kind cooperation throughout the production
of this book. Finally, we wish this handbook will contribute to the growth
of this subject, we wish to the novices a fruitful learning path, and to those more experts
a compelling application of the ideas discussed in this handbook and a fruitful
Francesco Ricci
Lior Rokach
Bracha Shapira
May 2010 Paul B. Kantor
of various types to build new types and more credible recommendations.
development of this challenging research area.
